# Pandas-Challenge
For this project, I was required to take two excel files, combine them and then conduct an analysis on the data provided. First, I conducted an analysis of the entire district. I did this by finding the total schools in the data, the total number of students, the total budget across the district. Once I found this information, I was able to conduct the average reading & math score, the %passing math, % passing reading and overall passing to produce a summary of the district overall.
Now that I have the required formula to get this information, I was able to do a summary by school. Determine the school type (charter or district) and the budget per capita. This gave me a snapshot of the individual schools, their budget, size and result. I was also asked to sort the schools by highest performing schools by % Overall Passing (Cabrera High School 91.334%) and the bottom 5 schools (Rodriguez High School 52.988%). I then was able to get the average school for each grade for each school. 
I was then asked to do an analysis of scores by per capita spending, by school size and by school type. This resulted in showing that the more spending per student the lower the average scores and percent passing is, my hypothesis would be the opposite. One can deduce that the higher the budget per student affects grade scores in a negative way. I originally thought that this was because the higher budget per student is allocated to the larger schools, but when I did the size analysis, I found this was not quite true because medium and large schools have similar sized per student spending. For schools by size, the largest school size had the lowest overall passing at 58.286% which is much lower than small (89.883% overall passing) and medium (90.621%) schools. This proves that the larger schools overall struggle to get their score on par with the other sized schools. Additionally, when you look at the scores by type analysis, you notice that the Charter schools have a much higher percentage of % passing Math (93.620% compared to 66.548%), % passing Reading (96.586% compared to 80.799%) and overall % passing (90.432% compared to 53.672%). However, when you look at the average scores for reading and math, they are not that far off between the two. Average math score for Charter is 83.473 and 76.956 for District, Average Reading score for Charter is 83.896 and 80.966 for District. The fact that the average scores are not that different, but the percentages are different, shows that there is a larger denominator for District schools. When you go back and look at the per_school_summary, you can see that the large schools are all District schools, and the Medium/Small schools are Charter schools. Additionally, the top 5 schools by % overall are all Charter schools and the bottom 5 schools are all District schools, with the lowest overall Rodriguez High having 3,999 students. You can conclude that the size of the school and whether it is a Charter school matters in the outcome of the overall grades of students.
